Q1. What are the differences between Docker and VM?
Q2. What is Docker?
Q3. What is Docker image?
Q4. What is Docker container?
Q5 What is Docker hub?
Q6. How is Docker different from other container technologies?
Q7. What is Dockerfile used for?
Q8. Tell us how you have used Docker in your past position?
Q9. How to create Docker container?
Q10. How to stop and restart the Docker container?
Q11. How far do Docker containers scale?
Q12. What platforms does Docker run on?
Q13. Which platform docker not run?
   => Windows and Mac

Q14. Do I lose my data when the Docker container exits?
Q15). What, in your opinion, is the most exciting potential use for Docker?

	-The most exciting potential use of Docker that I can think of is its build pipeline. 
	-Most of the Docker professionals are seen using hyper-scaling with containers, and indeed get a lot of containers on the host that it actually runs on. 
	-These are also known to be blatantly fast. Most of the development – test build pipeline is completely automated using the Docker framework.

Q16). Why is Docker the new craze in virtualization and cloud computing?

	-Docker is the newest and the latest craze in the world of Virtualization and also Cloud computing because it is an ultra-lightweight containerization app that is brimming with potential to prove 		 its mettle.
Q17). Why do my services take 10 seconds to recreate or stop?

	-Docker compose stop will attempt to stop a specific Docker container by sending a SIGTERM message. 
	-Once this message is delivered, it waits for the default timeout period of 10 seconds and once the timeout period is crossed, it then sends out a SIGKILL message to the container – in order to 		 kill it forcefully. 
	-If you are actually waiting for the timeout period, then it means that the containers are not shutting down on receiving SIGTERM signals / messages.

		In an attempt to solve this issue, the following is what you can do:

		• You can ensure that you are using the JSON form of the CMD and also the ENTRYPOINT in your dockerfile.
		• Use [“program”, “argument1”, “argument2”] instead of sending it as a plain string as like this – “program argument1 argument2”.
		• Using the string form, makes Docker run the process using bash that can’t handle signals properly. Compose always uses the JSON form.
		• If it is possible then modify the application which you intend to run by adding an explicit signal handler for the SIGTERM signal
		• Also set the stop_signal to a proper signal that the application can understand and also know how to handle it.

Q18). What’s the difference between up, run, and start?
Q19). What’s the benefit of “Dockerizing?”
Q20). How many containers can run per host?
Q21). Will cloud automation overtake containerization any sooner?
Q22). Is there a way to identify the status of a Docker container?
Q23). What are the differences between the ‘docker run’ and the ‘docker create’?
Q24). What are the various states that a Docker container can be in at any given point in time?

	There are four states that a Docker container can be in, at any given point in time. Those states are as given as follows:

	• Running
	• Paused
	• Restarting
	• Exited

Q25). Can you remove a paused container from Docker?

	To answer this question blatantly, No, it is not possible to remove a container from Docker that is just paused. 
	It is a must that a container should be in the stopped state, before it can be 	removed from the Docker container.

Q26). Is there a possibility that a container can restart all by itself in Docker?

	To answer this question blatantly, No, it is not possible. 
	The default –restart flag is set to never restart on its own. 
	If you want to tweak this, then you may give it a try.

Q27) What is the preferred way of removing containers - ‘docker rm -f’ or ‘docker stop’ then followed by a ‘docker rm’?

	The best and the preferred way of removing containers from Docker is to use the ‘docker stop’, 
	as it will allow sending a SIG_HUP signal to its recipients giving them the time that is required to perform all the finalization and cleanup tasks. 
	Once this activity is completed, we can then comfortably remove the container using the ‘docker rm’ command from Docker and thereby updating the docker registry as well.

Q28) Difference between Docker Image and container?

	Docker container is the runtime instance of docker image.
	Docker Image doesnot have a state and its state never changes as it is just set of files whereas docker container has its execution state.



